Title: Collaborative IDE
Contributers: Nick Janick & Matthew Strumph

Summary: We worked on building an collaborative learning platform to be used for teaching introductory programming skills . The goal was to have a video chat on one half of the window and a collaborative code editor on the other. This idea stemmed from Nick's work as a supplemental instruction lead, helping students in Macomb Community College's Introduction to Program Develpopment and Design, which uses Python to teach the basics of programming. SI sessions are meant to be collaborative learning environments where students work together to reinforce difficult concepts from the class. Some of the classes were online, so they required a remote SI session which creates challenges for students to work on coding skills collaboratively. Zoom has break out rooms so students could be paired up to work together for things like paried programming exercises, and they could share their screens so their partner could see what they were doing, but being unable to interact directly with the file being worked on often lead to lowered levels of engagement. Additionaly, when doing group work with then entire class, the lead could ask students things like what code should be entered next in a program, and students could give a verbal answer, but again they could not easily interact with the file in realtime to engage with the activity. With our collaborative code editor, students will be able to edit the same file remotely in realtime, similar to collaborative word processors such as google docs.

This was probably a bit too ambitious of a project for us, but most learning happens outside your comfort zone so we decided to give it our best effort. We would both consider ourselves to be begginers. Neither of us had any experience setting up the server side of things, and limited experience setting up GUIs. We spent a lot of time researching and looking in to possible ways to set up our backend, as well as figuring out formatting for our GUI. We eventually landed on seting up a local server using flask for our server side program, and were able to get a server running in a virtual environment. We able to hoble together most of the components for our GUI on the client side using java's Swing framework, but were not able to connect many of them to make them functional. We were able to get the client socket to connect to the websocket we set up on the server side, so that was a big win for us.

We both enjoyed the experience and felt we learned alot from it. It is very rare that either of us get the opportunity to dedicate such a large block of continuous time towards working on a project, and it was very helpful. By no means are we experts on the server side of things, and we are still probably a long way from being proficient even, but it demystified a lot of the structure and process of setting up the server side. I expect this experience cleared some roadblocks for some of our personal projects that had been put on hold because we had gotten to a point where we didn't know how to complete the next step, and just didn't have the time available to dive into learning it on our own. 

Unfortunately, we just did not have enough completed to record any type of meaningful demonstration, but we have already made plans to meet up regularly and continue working on this project and help each other learn new development skills.

